techdocs azurite support (#18824)
backstage/backstage: .changeset/pretty-otters-whisper.md

---

> '@backstage/plugin-techdocs-node': minor

Reviewer: You'll be adding a config.d.ts change (see other comment below), which means you'll want to add a second line here for `@backstage/plugin-techdocs-backen: minor` too

---

> Add azurite support in techdocs through `techdocs.publisher.azureBlobStorage.azuriteConnectionString`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a `techdocs.publisher.azureBlobStorage.connectionString` app-config setting, which can be leveraged for improved Azurite support.
```

> These changes are **required** to `plugins/techdocs-node/src/stages/publish/azureBlobStorage.ts` and `docs/features/techdocs/configuration.md`

Reviewer: Everything below, including this line, should be deleted from the changeset.

The purpose of a changeset files is only to generate a changelog entry for a given package _when making a release_ and ensuing that the required semver version bump happens. Its text body should inform the end user who's consuming the plugin what was changed. There's no further action on their part; the code below just replicates what the pull request contains and they don't have any `plugins/techdocs-node` folder

+++ b/docs/features/techdocs/configuration.md
@@ -158,6 +158,11 @@ techdocs:
       # (Required) Azure Blob Storage Container Name
       containerName: 'techdocs-storage'

+      # (Optional) Azurite connection string for local testing.
+      # Defaults to undefined
+      # if provided, takes higher priority, 'techdocs.publisher.azureBlobStorage.credentials' will become irrelevant
+      azuriteConnectionString: ''
+
       # (Required) An account name is required to write to a storage blob container.
       # https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/authorize-with-shared-key
       credentials:
diff --git a/plugins/techdocs-node/src/stages/publish/azureBlobStorage.ts b/plugins/techdocs-node/src/stages/publish/azureBlobStorage.ts
index bcbc10a..5f19b80 100644
--- a/plugins/techdocs-node/src/stages/publish/azureBlobStorage.ts
+++ b/plugins/techdocs-node/src/stages/publish/azureBlobStorage.ts
@@ -78,6 +78,26 @@ export class AzureBlobStoragePublish implements PublisherBase {
       );
     }

+    const legacyPathCasing =
+      config.getOptionalBoolean(
+        'techdocs.legacyUseCaseSensitiveTripletPaths',
+      ) || false;
+

> +    // Give more priority for azurite, if configured, return the AzureBlobStoragePublish object here itself

Reviewer 2: I think this is a great way to handle this. It won't break older installations. I like @kallayj's idea to emit a log message indicating which configuration is being used!

> +    const azuriteConnString = config.getOptionalString(

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering whether it's a good idea to name the connection string-specific functionality `azurite[...]`. Of course it's the thing that will allow people to use Azurite, but it could also be a perfectly normal way to configure Azure Blob Storage in general. I think I personally would probably would emphasize the Azurite stuff in the documentation, but would not necessarily call the configuration or the variables `azurite[...]`.

+      'techdocs.publisher.azureBlobStorage.azuriteConnectionString',
+    );
+    if (azuriteConnString) {

> +      const storageClient =

Reviewer 3: I suggest emitting a log message saying that the connection string is being used and any subsequent credentials will be ignored.
